---
title: "Notes: June 27, 2022"
date: 2022-06-27T15:25:32-07:00
draft: false
_build:
  list: false
---

_As usual, I would love if you added comments! You can do so using {{<rawhtml>}}<a href="https://curius.app" target="_blank">Curius</a>.{{</rawhtml>}}_

This post was harder to write than usual because some points felt quite personal (7 & 8). At first, I didn't want to share this post publicly -- but if there is some chance the post encourages others to be more vulnerable and honest in public, it seemed good to post it!

1\. I wish bad feelings had a dismiss option. For example, I know I need to pee, and I’m doing everything in my power to get to a washroom as soon as possible. But I don’t need to feel like my bladder is exploding; I just want to hit "dismiss".

2\. What makes Less Wrong different from Reddit? Is it the title? Is it the subtle design differences? My hypothesis is that how the communities were seeded is important. If Twitter/Instagram/etc. were seeded differently, would they still have converged to the same product that they are today?

3\. Conversations that go deep on one topic are much better than ones that spend a lot of time exploring topics superficially.

4\. In school, you’re incentivized to learn just enough to do well on your exams. Deeper understanding is not incentivized.

5\. Capillaries act as water coolers in the brain.

6\. A friend said "I'm always confused!" I thought that was amazing.

7\. I find myself often thinking about how other people think about me. For example, I wanted to read a book, and my mind thought about sitting in a place where people could see me — so they think I’m cool. I hate how my mind thinks about this.

8\. I feel misunderstood by my parents. They think I spent the past year doing nothing. I don't blame them — what I'm doing isn't very legible to most people. But if I renamed the time I spent on Curius to "Google internship", the summer I spent on the low-cost brain scanner to "Neuralink internship", and the past few months I spent reading neurotech papers to "MIT PhD", they definitely wouldn’t be saying that. We lack language to describe and legitimize independent explorations.

9\. Akward silence is great!

10\. Being shy has unexpected benefits. I rarely post on social media websites which makes me less addicted to them. I don’t enjoy parties which makes me spend my time with people 1-on-1.

11\. How do the number of bathrooms you need in a house scale with the number of residents? Is sharing 1 bathroom with 4 people worse than sharing 2 bathrooms with 9 people? (My answer will be revealed in the next post.)

12\. Suppose you can record from all the 100 billion neurons in the human brain. What do you do next?
