---
title: "How does the brain do math?"
date: 2021-12-18T20:19:43-05:00
draft: true
---
[Status: On hold, waiting for Numbers lecture in course to make sure the info is correct]

Many of the brain regions that are activated while doing mathematics also play a key role in processing spatial phenomena. This isn’t surprising as visualization is fundamental to mathematics, from elementary objects like number lines, to objects that are counted, function plots, graphs, charts, geometry, and trigonometry. And these only represent visualizations that we are conscious of. Mathematics is the only discipline that I can think of that is so visual yet does not directly refer to physical things (of course, disciplines like chemistry and sports are visual, but their visualizations correspond to physical things). Why is math so visual? One possible explanation is that math is often used to model reality, which is physical. But, many visualizations like function plots or charts are very far removed from physical things, and thus this explanation seems unlikely. A second hypothesis is that reasoning in general can be aided greatly by visualization (either consciously or unconsciously)!

One brain region that has been linked to both mathematics and spatial cognition is the intraparietal sulcus (IPS). For mathematics, the IPS is thought to represent numerical quantity and is used for number comparison, regardless of whether one is doing math orally or visually (Eger et al. 2003; Cantlon et al. 2006). The IPS was also shown to be relevant in more advanced mathematics, like topology, analysis, and geometry. Indeed, one study used functional MRI to indicate which parts of the brain are active when expert mathematicians were shown advanced mathematical statements and were asked to evaluate whether it was true or false (Amalric and Dehaene 2016). The IPS was active when evaluating mathematical statements but was not active for evaluating other non-mathematical statements, which was used as a control. With respect to spatial cognition, the IPS is involved in visual attention, visual control of grasping, depth perception, and coordinating hand movements (Colby and Goldberg 1999).

Some authors claim that language is fundamental to mathematics. According to linguist and cognitive scientist Noam Chomsky,  “the origin of the mathematical capacity [lies in] an abstraction from linguistic operations” (Chomsky and Institute Professor & Professor of Linguistics (Emeritus) Noam Chomsky 2006). However, increasing evidence points to language not playing a significant role in basic math (like arithmetic) and advanced math (Friedrich and Friederici 2009; Maruyama et al. 2012; Nakai and Sakai 2014; Amalric and Dehaene 2016). 

There are several other brain regions involved in mathematics. The anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) is involved in assessing whether a statement is true or false, and how valuable something will turn out to be (Quilodran, Rothé, and Procyk 2008). When solving a math problem, we can speculate that the brain first generates ideas and then runs the ideas through the ACC to determine how good the idea is. The prefrontal cortex is involved in attention and short term memory — like a computer’s cache — which are both important for mathematics (Amalric and Dehaene 2016).